# FrostBytes
FrostBytes is going to be a simple, user friendly interface that will provide an essential resource for those who are homeless and vulnerable in times of adverse weather. It will provide an avenue for charitable organizations to promote availability of beds, to those who needed it most but would not have previously had access to all the information in one source.    

 
# What is FrostBytes?

 

FrostBytes is a web app that enables cold weather and winter shelters to provide real time information of their room availability for access to anyone with a device connected to the internet. A system of search/reserve will enable homeless people to reserve a bed in a shelter for up to one hour before arrival, allowing themselves time to get to the shelter with a guarantee of a bed and also ensure that rooms booked clear from the system if they do not get filled within the hour.

It allows the homeless to have access to information about availability in all close proximity shelters rather than just the one or two they may be able to physically get to and maximises the chances of ensuring no bed goes un-slept in through winter. 

---- 
# How will homeless people access FrostBytes?

 

Unfortunately, a large percentage of people living on the streets will not have access to the internet on demand, though there are portion that do have mobiles and WIFI is widespread, failing that however almost everyone else that passes them by does and will be able to access the app with their smartphone. The search and reserve system should take a little under a minute to complete. A minute of someone’s time to help another out is entirely feasible and I can see it working.

 
# How does it work – Overview

 

Please refer to PDF UI wires included in this repository when reading below.

>QCODES will be explained in the user_interface_section – but here’s a quick intro to understand the next part involving the shelter side. QCODES are unique 4/5 digit codes (i.e – Q77121) that are generated when a user reserves an available room using FrostBytes.

---------------- 

# Shelter Side

Shelters involved in the scheme will sign up providing their contact and location details, times of opening and any restrictions they may have such as male/female/under 21 only.
Nightly bed availability is updated from the shelters dashboard (PDF - ShelterDashboard) taking into consideration walk-in users.

 

Shelter dashboard overview
=============================

**See (PDF-Shelter_dashboard_1) – Numbers relate to windows**

 
+ 1)    **Main bed details window** – Number of beds available per shelter will initially be set at the start of each night from the details provided when the shelter registered. Easy to use (+1 and -1) buttons allow staff/volunteers to quickly update available beds when walk-in arrivals secure a bed for the night (Those not using FrostBytes). The QCODE box at the bottom allows staff/volunteers to check the QCODE given to them by the user; this will expire after an hour of being generated (User Side section below explains the QCODE system)

+ 2)    **Available beds window** – Gives the staff/volunteers a snapshot of available beds in graphical form. Updates using the (+1 and -1) keys for walk-ins will show instantly. QCODES once generated by the user place a bed in a temporary state of reserve, they will not show up as available beds in further user searches until either **(a)** The hour passes when the QCODE was generated and the bed reverts back to available **(b)** The user arrives at the shelter and books in using his QCODE, in which case the bed is removed from the availability list permanently for the night.

+ *To assist staff/volunteers with quick identification of bed ratios – the available beds window will work on a colour coded system. Green beds will indicate availability, and amber beds will indicate a temporarily booked bed with an unexpired QCODE.*

+ 3)    **QCODE Stack** - Gives the shelter staff a snapshot of how many unexpired QCODES booked to their shelter are currently sitting on the system.

+ 4)    **QCODE input** – The QCODE that the guest provides on arrival is entered into the system to confirm reservation. It is then removed from the QCODE stack and the bed is removed from its reserved state from the beds window on the dashboard and also from the user search.

 
-------------------------------------
# User Side search page

**See (PDF – User_Search_1) Note: UI designed for mobile devices for the user interface**

+ 1)    If geolocations is available –Extraction of user postcode. An input box for manually inserting the postcode is available (2) but not practical due to possibility of lack of knowledge of the local area. Once the postcode has been entered, regular expression match ran on user postcode and shelters held on the database to identify local shelters that have available beds.  

 

**See (PDF User_Search_1_2_1)**

+ 2)    Will provide a list of shelters that currently have available beds within a certain radius based on the regEx match. Information included in the scrollable list of available shelters will be ``` [1] Name of shelter [2] Number of beds left [3] Postcode of shelter ```. Available shelters will also be colour coded (either green or amber) to indicate if beds are running low in a particular shelter. When users touch a shelter on the screen they are taken to the booking page

 

**See (PDF User_Search_Results prototype)**

+ 1)    The booking page returns information from the shelter selected ```(1) Name of the shelter (2) Postcode (3) Contact number (4) beds available```. If the user wants to book that shelter, pressing the booking button will generate a unique QCODE for them as reference of booking. The QCODE once generated also updates on the shelters dashboard QCODE stack. The QCODE is valid for an hour from generation to allow the user to get the shelter – The bed booked is in reserved state whilst the QCODE is valid – and will not show up in any new searches.
